# Endangerment-of-the-Leatherback-Turtle-
Animals around the world face several threats, most of which is caused by us humans and our inventions. While it is not a common topic, marine life is just as affected as animals on land. Canada is no exception. The Leatherback turtle is the largest and most migratory of all sea turtle species. It is known for its distinctive leathery shell. Once abundant in oceans worldwide, Leatherback populations have declined sharply over the past few decades. This species is now listed as vulnerable globally by the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature), with some populations, like those in the Pacific, now classified as Critically Endangered.
Human activities are the primary threats to leatherback turtles. Those include bycatch in commercial fishing gear, marine pollution, and climate change. Accidental capture in longlines and gillnets and other fishing gear, is one of the largest causes of turtle mortality. In addition, turtles ingest plastic debris, which are mistaken for jellyfish, their main prey. It leads to intestinal blockage and starvation, another big cause of death for turtles. Rising global temperatures impact sex ratios of hatchlings and the suitability of nesting habitats, all of which contribute to leatherback turtle’s declining population and high fatality rates. 
Understanding the complex array of threats leatherback turtles face is critical to developing effective conservation strategies. This paper explores the causes behind their population decline, and discusses innovative efforts aimed at preserving this ancient and iconic marine species.
